# Installing WordPress

---

Ok, before diving into the dashboard, let's first install WordPress so you can follow along.

---

### Installing WordPress

In order to setup WordPress, we need to install it in a PHP server.

You could install it on a XAMPP local server (which implicates several steps to do it), or you could use a program like [Local by Flywheel](https://localwp.com/).

Local does all the setup work for you. It simulates a local Apache/Nginx server and already install a fresh installation of WordPress for you. Almost nothing to do !

Go ahead, download it and install it.

After some research on how to launch a WordPress website with Local, let's dive into the WordPress dashboard.

---

I also have some considerations before we start :

### A Blog tool :O

Ok... there is a small caveat to WordPress...

Originally, WordPress was designed to be a CMS for a specific type of website : blogs. (it was created by two bloggers)

Which means we have some legacy structure that is mostly aimed to blogs. However,the program is sufficiently flexible that it can be used to create and design any sort of website.

This implies a little bit of a "hack" each time we get into the creation of a website.

For example, we will be constantly talking about "posts", "authors", "publishing the post", etc. that we will have to reinterpret in our heads to fit it to the actual website we are doing.

This only means that we can be a little confused in the beggining with how the dashboard works related to a simple website that is not a blog. But I can guarantee you that after you get to know it, it will not be a problem anymore. Just hang on !
