**Let's exercise !**

---

**1.**
Let's write function that throws as many dice we want with as many faces we want.

- Write a function that takes two parameters `faces` and `times`
- The result should be : `die 1 : result`, `die 2 : result`, etc. as many time you determined with the param `times`.

For example, if you call the function `through_dice(6, 8)`, you would have printed something like this :

```
die 1: 6
die 2: 3
die 3: 2
die 4: 6
die 5: 1
die 6: 1
die 7: 3
die 8: 4
```

**2.**

Let's write a function that takes as parameter a string and the amount of times we want to repeat it. Then, print the result.

Example:

```php
repeat("$", 5);
// expected result : "$$$$$"
```

Remember to test if the number is actually a number

**3.**

Let's write a function that takes a firstName and a lastName as parameters and presents gives the full name with the lastName being an inital.

Example :

```php
greet("Marlon", "Brandon");

// Expected result "This is Marlon. B"
```

**4.**

Let's write a function to know if, depending on the weather, I should use a short or not.

Call it `is_short_weather` and it should return true if the temperature is above or equal to 24 degrees and false if it's under.

Examples :

```php
is_short_weather(13); // false
is_short_weather(27); // true
is_short_weather(-7); // false
```

**5.**

Please write a function called `last_element` which accepts a single array argument. The function should return the last element of the array (without removing the element). If the array is empty, the function should return null.

Example :

```php
last_element([3, 5, 7]); //7
last_element([1]); //1
last_element([]); //null
```

**6.**

Define a function called `capitalize` that accepts a string argument and returns a new string with the first letter capitalized (but the rest of the string unchanged). For example:

```php
capitalize("eggplant"); // "Eggplant"
capitalize("pamplemousse"); // "Pamplemousse"
capitalize("squid"); //"Squid"
```

**7.**

Write a function called `sum_array` which accepts a single argument: an array of numbers. It should return the sum of all the numbers in the array.

Example :

```php
sum_array([1, 2, 3]); // 6
sum_array([2, 2, 2, 2]); // 8
sum_array([50, 50, 1]); // 101
```

**8.**

Write a function called `return_day`.

This function takes in one parameter (a number from 1-7) and returns the day of the week (1 is Monday, 2 is Tuesday, etc.)

If the number is less than 1 or greater than 7, the function should return null.

We will use Monday as the first day.

Example :

```php
return_day(1); // "Monday"
return_day(7); // "Sunday"
return_day(4); // "Thursday"
return_day(0); // null
```
