# Variables

---

At this point, you should already know what variables are and how they work.

Let's see what are the differences from JavaScript to PHP :

In PHP, we declare a variable with de `$` sign. So :

```php
<?php

$my_first_name = "Henrique";
$my_last_name = "Vieira";
$my_age = 36;

?>
```

Pay attention to these points :

- We have to open a `<?php` tag so Apache can know that you are writing php code. Otherwise, it will just assume it's markup that will be automatically be translated to HTML.
- We end the PHP "part" closing its tag : `?>`
- We declare a varibale with the `$` sign
- the naming convention is called `snake case`, which means : we write the variable name is lowercase with each word separated by a `_`.
- Every declaration in PHP **MUST** end with `;`. If it's not the case, it will throw an error !

---

**Data types**

Data types in PHP are the common ones that we find in JavaScript :

- String.
- Integer.
- Float
- Boolean. (Booleans return 1 or 0 in PHP)
- Array.
- Object.
- NULL.
  and some others that don't matter for now...

PHP doesn't require to type your variables (that means : a variable can change later to another data type).

```php
$my_variable = "Hello"; // Returns the string "Hello"

$my_variable = 53; // Now, it changed and returns 53;
```

There is also a way to define "constants" with the function `define("NAME OF THE CONSTANT", "VALUE")`

---

We will see many other keywords later, but let my introduce you to the keyword `echo`.

`echo` is telling PHP to "print" ("display", "show"... as you wish...) some information to the hypertext file that will be processed (the resulting HTML)

There are other ways to "print" data to the HTML result file such as `print_r()`, `var_dump()`, and others... These can be quite usefull for debugging while in development.

Go look for these and test by yourself to see the differences.
