# Let's get serious.

---

BEAR minimum is not enough unfortunately.

We will begin to build a robust website with styles and javascript as you would in your previous frontend training but this time linked to a database (the one from WordPress - SQL). The advantage is that you won't need to deal with the database directly, it's all gonna be through the user-friendly dashboard (either to store text, relationships, etc either to store images and documents.)

---

First, let's add some files to the structure.

Add these and I'll explain later :

- `header.php`
- `footer.php`
- `404.php`
- `pages/home.php`
- `functions.php`

You also can prepare an image that has to be 1200px / 900px that you have to name `screenshot.png` and put it the root folder as well. This images is gonna be the cover of your theme in the admin dashboard. (not mandatory, but cool)

---

`header.php` and `footer.php` are well... the header and the footer parts you can call in every page of your website so you can have consistent header and footer across your site without having to copy them many times to each page.

`404.php` is the page 404 that will display in a 404 not found error.

The folder `pages` has an arbitrary name. It's just for our organisation. In here, you can create a php file for each page you need.

`functions.php` is a file that runs for each and every request that is done to your site. That means : it will run every time you refresh the page / navigate to another page. That's where all the logic of your website is gonna be.

---

I'll explain each of these files in the next documents. We will be jumping back and forward from the code to the admin dashboard all along the process.

---

At the end of this chapter, some things to be mastered :

- In the WordPress structure, there are predefined file names that are reserved and serve automatically to some purpose.
