# Plugins

---

WordPress plugins are little (or not so little) programs that enhance the capabilities of your WordPress experience.

It creates new functionnalities beyond the WordPress core features or enhance them with more options and more customization.

There are even plugins that just use the native WordPress capabilities, but offer for example a nice GUI (Graphic User Interface) in order to facilitate your experience without having to code all its features.

---

Let's take two extreme opposites examples :

- There is a plugin whose only goal is to come back to the "classic editor" for your pages instead of the new one implemented a few years ago. This can be done with one line of code in the `functions.php` file. (But many WordPress users don't know how to code and never acces the code.)

- On the other side, there are plugins such WooCommerce that add a load of new features, transforming the whole WordPress experience into an e-commerce platform, that allows visitors to seamlessly purchase products directly from your website.

You'll find thousands and thousands of plugins available in the `plugins` tab.

**But I must give you a warning !**

Plugins are pieces of code (sometimes a very huge amount) created by tier persons that interfere on your program. If there are vulnerabilities in these code, your website can easily be subject to attacks that can have very nasty consequences.

Never install plugins that haven't been reviewed and have a solid and serious background and maintenance history.

Moreover, even if you installed a serious plugin, **always keep them up to date!**. The reason is simple : Gradually in time, hackers find vulnerabilities in these plugins. The updates they get aim to not only give more functionnalities, but mostly, secure them from new attacks.

The ideal situation is this : A WordPress website with absolutely **NO PLUGIN**. Not only for the reasons mentioned above, but also because it can seriously slow down your website as well as having conflicts between them, crashing your site with new updates, etc.

Your mantra from now one is : **USE THE MINIMUM NEEDED PLUGINS ON YOUR WEBSITE !**

---

Personally, there are only a few plugins I use in my projects :

- ACF
- ACF Theme Code Pro
- Yoast
- WordFence
- WPML
- All In One WP Migrator

Honestly... I think this is already a lot!
But in my worflow I can't really work without them.

I'll try to explain what they do.

The main one, that without it you virtually can't work properly, is ACF (_Advanced Custom Fields_).
