# WP Queries

---

By now, after the challenge, you should have learned how WP Queries work.

Just some considerations about it :

I'll get back to something I already wrote two chapters ago :

_You should have noticed that when you are in a page and you call `the_title`, you'll echo the title of this specific page and not from another one. But there is gotta be a way to retrieve the title, date of publication, content, permalink, etc. from other pages/posts from within a specifc page. And there is... WP Queries !_

---

In WordPress, WP_Query is a powerful built-in class that allows you to fetch specific content from the database. It acts as a safer and more convenient alternative to writing raw SQL queries.

#### What can you do with WP_Query?

- Retrieve Specific Posts: You can target posts based on various criteria like category, tag, author, date, and even custom fields.
- Customize Post Display: WP_Query lets you control how retrieved posts are displayed. You can sort them, limit the number shown, and even choose which information to display (e.g., title, excerpt).

#### How does WP_Query work?

- **Instantiate the Class**: You create a new WP_Query object, optionally passing an array of arguments that define your query criteria.
- **The Loop**: Once you have the WP_Query object, you can use the standard WordPress loop to iterate through the retrieved posts and display them on your webpage.
- **Reset**: If you're using multiple WP_Query instances on the same page, it's recommended to call `wp_reset_postdata()` to avoid conflicts with the global post data.

For further information, here is the [doc](https://developer.wordpress.org/reference/classes/wp_query/).

---

### Options you can pass as argument to WP Query.

As I said, WP Query is a specifc way to query the database. Which means you can also configure **how** you will query them. Here are some parameters you can pass in the array :

```php
$args = array(
    'post_type'         => 'post',      // Name of the post type
    'posts_per_page'    =>  5,          // Number of posts. If you want all of them : -1
    'order'             => 'DESC',      // 'ASC' or 'DESC'.
    'orderby'           => 'meta_value',  // 'date', 'title', 'random', 'comment_count'... 'meta_value'
    'meta_key'          => 'order',     // The name of the custom field
    'meta_compare'      => '>',         // '=','>','<', '!=', '<=',
    'meta_value'        => '4',         // The value that the condition should check
    // 'category_name'     => 'books',  // The name of the category that the result should show
    'cat'               => 17,          // The ID of the category (better than the name because name could change)
    //'category__and    => [17, 24]     // Instead of using a single category, must be in several categories
    //'category__in'    => [52, 12]     // Must be in at least one of them
    //'category__not_in'=> [7, 91]      // Cannot be in one of these categories
    //
);

```

See you have such a parameter that says `post_type` ?

Post type of the default posts is `post`. Duh !

But you can create as many post types as you want. `Movies`, `Real estate`, `Blabla`, ... as you whish !
