# Custom Post Types and CHALLENGE

---

For now, we have seen posts and pages (that ultimately are posts as well).

The name `post` is pretty self explanatory. As we are in a blog engine, the goal is to be able to post our blog articles.

The, what we call "post type" in this case is `post`.

But we can create other post types. They are ultimately the same thing (WYSIWYG posts), but in another umbrella.

Think of a small social media where users can save some movies as well as actors with some pictures and descriptions so the public can check them.

Movies and actors are not semantically "blog posts". Also, if we use posts to do that, we would have movies and actors under the same category of posts. We could assign different categories to the posts and query them by category, etc. But think of having different custom fields for "movies" and "actors" ? That would become very quicly a complete mess ! Thankfully there is a cleaner and more efficient way to do this : `custom post types`.

We can create a `CPT` (custom post type) for the movies and another for the actors.

You'll see that a new tab will appear in the dashboard menu (like for posts) with the names `Movies` and `Actors`. From there, you can create as many movies and actors you want, with their respective custom fields etc. (ok...ultimately they are treated as posts, but that's WordPress !)

---

Here is a way to register a custom post type for recipes via the `functions.php` file :

```php
function register_recipes_post_type() {
  $args = array(
    'labels' => array(
      'name' => __( 'Recipes' ),
      'singular_name' => __( 'Recipe' )
    ),
    'public' => true,
    'show_in_rest' => true,
    'supports' => array('title', 'editor', 'thumbnail')
    // And many many others config !
  );
  register_post_type( 'recipes', $args );
}

add_action( 'init', 'register_recipes_post_type' );


```

But... !!!! The `ACF` plugin has recently included a way of creating CPTs from within the dashboard ! Because we will - mostly - always use ACF in our projects, go nut and create CPTs from there !

- Start a new project in `Local` called `Cinema`
- Do all the things to create the theme etc. (again, I know... but it's good practice)
- In your homepage, put a title (`My Movie Database`) and subtitles for `Featured movies` and `Featured actors`...
- Create a `Movie` post type and an `Actor` post type.
- Create different custom fields for each of these post types with fields that make sense to them (`Movies` --> poster image, title, year, story, critic..., `Actors` --> Name, date of birth, picture, etc..)
- Create some actors and movies from your dashboard.
- In your homepage, create a list of movies with the possibility to click on any of them and go to the single page with more info. (You will need to query only the Movies post type)
- Same thing for the actors.

You have now a small platform of movies and actors that you can create from the dashboard and check on your frontend ;)

This is a small taste for the end project we will do.
