# Pagination

---

Ok... This subject is a little anoying... :O
At the end, we ask ourselves why couldn't it be easier ? But that's the way it is. Buckle up !

---

You should now have created the pages `Movies` and `Actors`. In each of these pages, you queried their specifc post types and looped through it to display each one of them.

Now... let's say you have hundreds of movies to display. That would be a very looooong page.

The solution ? Pagination !

Thankfully, WordPress gets us covered, event though it could be more intuitive... :/

---

Everything is gonna happen on the WP Query you'll write, with the properties `posts_per_page` and `paged`.

You already know that you must assign `posts_per_page` to `-1` to get all the entries. But limiting the amount of posts will give you the ability to retrieve only some posts and navigate through different pages that you define with the attribute `paged`.

Try for yourself !

- With the 10 movies you created, make a query with only 3 movies per page.
- You'll see that only the 3 last published posts will be displayed.
- Now, if you set `paged` to 2 (page 2 of the pagination) you will get the next 3 movies.
- Now, try to enter in the url `{your url}/page/3`
  - See ? It doesn't give you any error. This URL exists ! (but nothing changes in what is displayed)

We are going to play with this !

Instead of having hard coded the `paged` attribute (like "3"), we are going to assign it to a variable that we are going to create that captures the number of the URL.

And there is a function to this ! `get_query_var('paged');`

Try to make sense of this snippet :

```php
$current_page = get_query_var('paged');
// get_query_var('paged') is looking for the number after "/page/" in the url.

// The only problem with the code above is that when we are in the first page, for some reason, it considers to be the page 0 instead of 1. We can solve that with :

$current_page =  (get_query_var('paged')) ? get_query_var('paged') : 1;
// Do you get why ? If paged is not falsy (so... 0), it stays like it is. If it is 0, it goes to 1.

$args = array(
    'post_type'         => 'movie',
    'posts_per_page'    =>  3,
    'paged'             =>  $current_page,
);
```

`$current_page` here is the number in your URL. So... If your URL is `{your url}/page/4`, your query will have the `paged` argument as 4 !

Now you should be able to change the url with different numbers and see that the movies that appear are different.

---

Untill now, it's ok. Not that hard to understand... But what's missing ?

The ability to navigate back and forward to these URLs through links without having to change directly the URL by hand.

The goal is to have several links like `previous`, `2`, `3`, `4`, `next`, etc.

WordPress has a specific native method that does that automatically for us : `paginate_links()`. It gives you anchor tags for the `previous`, `next` and all the numbers of pages.

But well... my friends... I won't tell you this often, but I'm still not 100% confident on how exactly some of the parameters we must enter work in its essence. I know it works, but why some of these things work like it does... Let me know if you are stroke by a send of God in that matter. (pleaaase !!!)

**Method 1 : Custom logic**

You could try to use these native functions :

```php
home_url()
get_page_uri()
```

Concatenate them and implement some logic to go back and forward. (Try ! It's a good exercise)

But you will have then to implement even more logic to test if it's the latest page or the first... Loop through all the pages that exist to echo each anchor tag, assign a "current" class to the current page, etc. etc. It can get verbose...

The advantage : You will really have control on the markup of the pagination.

**Method 2 : paginate_links()**

This one does a lot for you already (like hiding the `Previous` if it's the first page, hiding `Next` if it's the last one, giving you a link for each page number as well as assigning the class `current` to the current page number ).

But... It doesn't give you a lot of options regarding the markup. You will have to play with your css to adapt.

```php
$big = 999999999; // Needs a large number to avoid conflicts.
echo paginate_links(array(
    'base' => str_replace($big, '%#%', get_pagenum_link($big)),
    'format' => '?paged=%#%',
    'current' => $current_page,
    'total' => $movies->max_num_pages,
));
```

ChatGPT this and try to understand each one of these steps.

Finally :

- Create a pagination with `paginate_links`.

---

GREAT !!!!
Ouuff... That was a complicated and annoying one !

But you have now a pretty robust application with :

1. Homepage with the featured movies and actors
2. Ability to navigate to the single pages of them
3. A page for the Movies and a page for the Actors to see all of them and with pagination (and alos access their single pages) !
4. All of this is powered by the WordPress engine through its dashboard where you can create, update and delete actors and movies, giving them information and pictures as you whish (what you established in you ACF). Your whole backend is there !
