# More complex search and database queries.

---

Let's see how we can perform more complex search !

WordPress gives us a ton of native functions that do a lot of work for us. But some times we need to go further in our programming tasks.

In order to search for partials match, we will need to get our hands dirty and mess directly with the SQL database, making SQL queries.

Thankfully, WordPress also makes it easy to connect to the database, avoiding us to make the connection by ourselves. We just have to focus on the query ! :)

---

Let me give you a small example on how you could custom query the database :

- First: capture the search term in a variable.

```php
$search_term = get_search_query();
```

- Then, find the way to query the database via the db connection WordPress gives us (`$wpdb->get_results`, `$wpdb->prepare`, `wpdv->posts` etc.). Try to understand these commands and implement them.

- Small and important reminder !!!! : Remember that for security reasons, every input processing in a website must be sanitized ! It can be very dangerous to receive the raw search term without sanitizing it. (Don't know what this means ? Look for it ! It's very important to prevent injections from bad people)

- Once you have everything set, perform this SQL query in order to ger partials matches :

```sql
SELECT *
FROM $wpdb->posts
WHERE (post_title LIKE '%$search_term%')
OR (post_content LIKE '%$search_term%')
OR (post_excerpt LIKE '%$search_term%')
ORDER BY post_date DESC;
```

- Loop through the results and you should have a nice partial-matching list of posts that contain your search term.
