# Option pages

---

Option pages are a great way to implement custom fields that are available for the **whole website** and not only for a specifc template.

You know already that when you create a custom field for the page `Home`, for example, you call `the_field('name_of_the_field');` and it looks for the field that has this name for the template `home`.

Two fields cannot have the same slug, but if you are in different pages they can. That's why you can have a custom field named "title" for the `Home` page and antoher one called "title" for the `About` page.

But sometimes I want to have a custom field that is available to the whole website ! One that I can call in any page. Solution : Option pages !

Option pages are a tool created by the ACF plugin with this intend.

---

`Option pages` have to be created in the `functions.php` file with a name. It's gonna appear as a tab in your dashboard. Here is the code to do it :

```php
acf_add_options_page(
    array(

        'page_title'    =>  'Global ACF', // Title of the option page
        'menu_title'    =>  'Global ACF', // How it will appear in the admin's sidebar
        'menu_slug'     =>  'global', // slug of the option page (important for the subpages)
        'capabilities'  =>  'edit_post', // Who can access this option page
        'icon_url'      =>  'dashicons-admin-site-alt3' // Icon from WP Dashicons
    )
);

```

But.. hey ! With the recent update of ACF you can now create option pages from the dashboard. So forget the code... (It's getting too easy !)

---

- Create an option page named `Global`. Within the **Global** tab in your dashboard, you will hold all the custom fields that you want to appear in several pages. This way, you won't be repeating fields across many pages.

- See the title you have in your homepage (`"My movies database"`), let's put it as a main title in the the pages `Movies` and `Actors`.

- Delete the custom field `title` in your dashboard for the `home` page. We don't want to have it only for the homepage.

- Create a custom field `title` in the Global option page.

- Now, call it in an `h1` in Home, Movies and Actors. (To call the field from an option page, there is a small difference that you'll have to find out ;) )

---

That's it ! Pretty simple but very handy chapter :)
