# Authentication

---

From our past experience with backend, we know authentication can be a very tricky and slow process. We have to deal with tokens, cookies, etc.

WordPress, as always, gives you tons of tools to check if the user is logged in, if it's an admin, a pre-made login form, etc.

---

So... What is our goal here with this chapter ? Very simply introduce you to the management of authentication status on our frontend. We will be "protecting" some pages in order that only logged-in users can access them.

We will be implementing a login page and a logout button as well. A register page is a little beyond what we will do here. But feel free to try !

---

- In your header, create a `login` form that works !
- To test it, logout from the dashboard and login from the front form. Go back to the dashboard and you'll see you logged.
- Implement a logout button as well.

If you want a more visual way to see if you're logged in from the front, erase in `functions.php` the hook to remove the `admin bar` that we put in the begin of the course. You'll see that when you are logged in you'll see the bar and if logged out not.

- From within the dashboard, create more users (profiles).
- Try to login with which one of them and logout from the front.

- Make that when you are logged in, only the `logout` button appears and, in the other side, if you are logged in, make that only the `login form` appears.

- When you are logged in, put a paragraph in your header saying `Hello, ...(name of the user) !`

Starting to see how easy it is to handle login/logout ?? That's wonderful !!!! Let's keep going ! :)

---

- Implement in every page a condition to check if the user is logged-in. If he's not, redirect him to the home page.
- (try to find a solution to use the "restriction code" only once. This might require a refactor of the way you handle routes - OPTIONAL )
- In the home page, if the user is not logged in, display only a message saying that in order to use the website, you must be logged in.

---

Done ? GREAAAAAAT JOB !!!!!!!! :D

<details>
<summary>Open after completition</summary>

```php
// Generates an input for username/password already linked to the logic to
login.
<?php wp_login_form(array('echo' =>
true)); ?>

// Link to automatically logout
<a href="<?php echo wp_logout_url(get_permalink()); ?>">Logout</a>

// Condition to check if logged-in and redirection to home page
<?php
if (!is_user_logged_in()) {
    wp_redirect(home_url());
    // Exit script. Stops the page to continue being read.
    exit;
}
?>
```

</details>
