# Variables

---

At this point, you should already know what variables are and how they work.

Let's see what are the differences from JavaScript to PHP :

In PHP, we declare a variable with de `$` sign. So :

```php
<?php

$my_first_name = "Henrique";
$my_last_name = "Vieira";
$my_age = 36;

?>
```

Pay attention to these points :

- We have to open a `<?php` tag so Apache can know that you are writing php code. Otherwise, it will just assume it's markup that will be automatically be translated to HTML.
- We end the PHP "part" closing its tag : `?>`
- We declare a varibale with the `$` sign
- the naming convention is called `snake case`, which means : we write the variable name is lowercase with each word separated by a `_`.
- Every declaration in PHP **MUST** end with `;`. If it's not the case, it will throw an error !

---

**Data types**

Data types in PHP are the common ones that we find in JavaScript :

- String.
- Integer.
- Float (floating point numbers - also called double)
- Boolean.
- Array.
- Object.
- NULL.
  and some others that don't matter for now...

PHP doesn't require to type your variables (that means : a variable can change later to another data type).

```php
$my_variable = "Hello"; // Returns the string "Hello"

$my_variable = 53; // Now, it changed and returns 53;
```

---

We will see many other keywords later, but let my introduce you to the keyword `echo`.

`echo` is telling PHP to "print" ("display", "show"... as you wish...) some information to the hypertext file that will be processed (the resulting HTML)

---

**Let's do a little exercise :**

Given the existing code at the end, can you write some code so that their values are switched around?

`$a = "3"; $b = "8";`

At the end :

The variable `$a` should hold the value "8".

And the variable `$b` should hold the value "3".

When the code is run, it should output on the browser:

```
a is 8
b is 3
```

Copy the bellow code into your php file and refresh it in the browser.

- Do NOT change any of the existing code.

- You are NOT allowed to type any numbers.

- You should NOT redeclare the variables a and b.

Copy this code :

```php
<?php

$a = "3";
$b = "8";

/***********Do not change the code above 👆*******/
//Write your code here :



/***********Do not change the code below 👇*******/

echo "a is " . $a;
echo "<br/>";
echo "b is " . $b;

?>
```

---

This is the occasion to understand two concepts on PHP :

- Concatenation is done with a `.`
- If you want to break a line on what is shown, you will have to echo an html tag `<br/>`. Do you get why ? You will be "printing" to the HTML the br tag, that will be interpreted by your browser.
